==========Camping===========

1. TWEEDE TOL

This site is situated in the Du Toitskloof Mountains, close to Bainskloof Pass, 
at the spot where the original tollgate was built in 1851. Campers will get a taste for the rugged mountain life, 
surrounded by fynbos, forests and rock-strewn wilderness.
Where is it: Limietberg Nature Reserve, near Paarl
Distance from CT: 1.5 hours
Activities: Overnight campers gain exclusive access to the Wolwekloof swimming holes (as opposed to day visitors, 
who are only permitted as far as the Witte River swimming holes), as well as numerous hiking trails within the reserve. 
There’s also a shaded picnic area with braai facilities and a jungle gym for children.
Facilities: Communal washing and hot-water showers. Each campsite has its own braai grid, and firewood can be purchased at the gate. 
No power points. 
Good to know: For visitors wanting something more private, there are also six fenced-off campsites, 
each with its own kitchen and bathroom
Dog-friendly: no
Cost: R300 – R365 per campsite, depending on season
R500 – R570 per private campsite, depending on season
Up to 6 people allowed per campsite
Peak rates are charged during Western Cape school holidays and public holidays, as well as on the day before and after holidays
R40 (adult permit)
R20 (child permit)
Contact: 021 871 1535 (Reserve Office)
021 483 0190, reservation.alert@capenature.co.za (for accommodation and permits)
Location: Tweede Tol, R301

2. DWARSBERG TROUT HIDEAWAY

Known as paradise by those who’ve experienced it, this campsite just outside of Rawsonville is situated on a working fruit and wine farm 
and is perfect for beautiful getaways.
Where is it: Trouthaven
Distance from CT: 1.5 hours
Activities: Outdoor activities include trout-fishing, bird-watching, mountain-biking and hiking through waterfalls. 
Feel like a break from your tent? There is plenty of wine tasting in the region.
Facilities: Private ablution with hot water on each plot. Portable braai with two bags of free wood on weekends 
(available for purchase from the kiosk during the week). Selected plots have electricity.
Dog-friendly: no
Cost: R990 (for the first 6 people)
R165 (per additional adult per night)
R80 (per child aged 4 – 12 per night) 
Free (children under 4)
Contact: 023 349 1919, info@trouthaven.co.za
Location: Dwarsberg Trout Hideaway, Dwarsberg Farm, Rawsonville

3. THE BATHS NATURAL HOT SPRINGS RESORT

Just outside Citrusdal in the scenic Olifants River Valley, this rustic resort dating back to 1739 provides campers with the ultimate 
relaxing escape. 
Where is it: Citrusdal
Distance from CT: 2.5 hours 
Activities: Enjoy the various hiking trails with views of Olifants River Valley, explore the town or chill at the campsite 
where there is a small onsite playground for children, a trampoline and tennis court. 
With natural hot springs, this campsite is all about relaxed outdoor living. 
Facilities: There are three communal ablution blocks spaced around the campsite, braai facilities, as well as power points. 
Dog-friendly: no
Cost: R100 – R120 (adult, depending on season)
R50 – R60 (child under 12, depending on season)
Contact: 022 921 8026, 022 921 8032, reservations@thebaths.co.za
Location: The Baths, Citrusdal

4. BEAVERLAC

Tucked away in the Groot Winterhoek Mountains above Porterville, this charming no-fuss campsite epitomises the great outdoors 
in all its rugged majesty.
Where is it: Olifants River Mountains
Distance from CT: 2 hours
Activities: Enjoy a wide variety of dog-friendly hiking trails up the Groot Winterhoek Mountains followed by a dip in one of the 
rockpools and waterfalls. You might even stumble upon some of the area’s famed rock art. 
There are also some great mountain-biking trails for  intrepid travellers. 
Facilities: Communal ablution facilities. There’s no electricity but there’s a small shop selling wood, beer, wine, ice and snacks, 
with a power point and freezer for use. Bring your own braai grid. 
Dog-friendly: yes (R50 per dog per night)
Cost: R30 (per car)
R65 (adult per night)
R40 (children aged 4 – 17 per night)
free (children under 4)
Contact: 022 931 2945, beaverlac.kantoor@gmail.com
Location: Beaverlac, Porterville,  South Africa