==========Hiking==========

1. CRYSTAL POOLS

This hiking trail is very doable for anyone who is reasonably fit, and slightly challenging for those who are not. 
The rockpools along the way, where you can cool down during your walk, make it well worth the slog. 
The half-day hike takes you through rocky, but generally flat, terrain, and all the way at the top is a wonderful waterfall. 
But it is quite a trek, so make sure you have plenty of snacks, water and energy to get there.
Starting and end point: Steenbras Nature Reserve entrance
Duration: 3 hours
Need to know: The trail is only open from 1 November to 30 April.
Child-friendly? Children under the age of 12 must be accompanied by an adult.
Dog-friendly? No
Cost: R65 per person (valid until June 2018)
Contact: 021 444 6927, steenbras.naturereserve@capetown.gov.za
Bookings must be done via email, at least two working days before your visit
Emergency number: 021 957 4725 
Location: Faure Marine Drive R44, Steenbras Nature Reserve

2. BOBBEJAANS RIVER TRAIL

Situated in the scenic Limietberg Nature Reserve, this trail takes you above the river that gives it its name, eventually ending at a majestic waterfall. 
Along the way you’ll cross the Witte River, where you can take a refreshing dip in its cool waters.
Good to know There are several other hiking trails in the Limietberg Nature Reserve, including a two-day overnight trail. 
It’s also the location of the Tweede Tol campsite.
Starting and end point: Bainskloof Corner Lodge parking area
Duration: 6 hours
Need to know: The trail is not recommended during winter, as the Witte River can become quite rough following heavy rainfall.
All CapeNature reserves require visitors to purchase a permit before they can access any of the hiking trails. 
Contact CapeNature to book your permits, or acquire them at the reserve office.
Child-friendly? Suitable for teenagers, if they are fit.
Dog-friendly? No
Cost CapeNature Permit: R40 (adults); R20 (children)
Contact: 021 808 5121 (Tweede Tol campsite)
082 494 9707 (emergency number)
021 483 0190, reservation.alert@capenature.co.za (booking enquiries)
Location: Bainskloof Corner Lodge, Limietberg Nature Reserve

3. SKELETON GORGE

This hike basically takes you from one side of Table Mountain to the other. 
Starting off in the the serene Kirstenbosch Gardens, you will arrive at the steep ascent of Skeleton Gorge where indigenous trees provide shade. 
Along the way, you’ll encounter a stream, typical mountain fynbos and some interesting rock formations before arriving at Maclear’s Beacon – the highest point on Table Mountain. 
Take a rest and enjoy panoramic views of the city and Robben Island.
Starting point: Kirstenbosch Gardens
End point: Maclear’s Beacon
Duration: 2 – 4 hours (depending on your level of fitness)
Good to know: Nursery Ravine provides an easier alternative route that also joins up with the Skeleton Gorge trail at certain points. 
This makes them a popular pairing, with one trail being used for ascent and the other (preferably Nursery Ravine) being used for descent.
Need to know: This is a long hike with ladders to assist climbers to the top, and a rockfall to overcome, meaning you have to be extremely fit. 
Parts of the gorge can be quite slippery, even during summer. It’s recommended to avoid this route during and immediately after heavy rainfall.
Child-friendly? Yes
Dog-friendly? No
Contact: 021 712 0527, tablem@sanparks.org (Table Mountain National Park)
TMNP emergency numbers: 086 110 6417/ 107 or 021 480 7700
021 799 8899, Kirstenboschinfo@sanbi.org.za (Kirstenbosch)
Location: Kirstenbosch

4. PLATTEKLIP GORGE

Probably the second most well-known hiking trail in Cape Town (after Lion’s Head), Platteklip is not so easygoing, despite its popularity. 
Sure, there’s not much climbing or scrambling involved, but there’s a lot of upward walking, which probably makes it the ideal route for a workout. 
It provides a direct route to the summit of Table Mountain, for those who think taking the cable car is for lightweights.
Starting point: Tafelberg Road
End point: Upper Cableway Station
Duration: 3 hours, though some ridiculously fit people have been known to run up the trail in an hour.
Need to know: Platteklip is best avoided on a hot day, as there is little shade to be found along the trail.
Be prepared for all types of weather, and bring a hat, sunblock and jacket.
Proper hiking shoes are required; do not attempt this trail with slip-slops.
If you plan to take the cable car down, make note of operational times and ensure you reach the station before the last cable car leaves.
Important note: SANParks has informed us that many rescues are performed at this site, as people underestimate the heat and the level of fitness required, 
or they miss the last cable car and end up stranded on the mountain at night. Please take the necessary precautions.
Child-friendly? Yes, although take note of the above.
Dog-friendly? Bringing dogs is not recommended on this trail, as they struggle in the heat.
Contact: 021 712 0527, Table.Mountain@sanparks.org
TMNP emergency numbers: 086 110 6417/ 107 or 021 480 7700
Location: Table Mountain National Park