BLACK WIDOW (25)

Pitch 1. 28m (24)

Start as for Incy Wincy Spider. At the first rail move left and then up over easy ground aiming for the bottom part of the darker grey face.
At this point there is a sickle shaped flake up and right (very loose). Traverse 1m left at the finger rail and then straight up the 
steep face to the next set of rails. Move 1.5m left and follow the right side of the vague arête, then up the short slab to the narrow 
ledge. Stance at an old peg and ring. 
Pitch 2. 15m (25)

Bring small and micro cams for this pitch. Place a high wire on the Bust Up pitch, and then move back down and left across the blunt arête.
Follow the good holds just left of the arête until the wall blanks out. From the undercling, traverse ~2m left using two small uncut 
holds and then up to a large sidepull below a hand rail. Head straight up past some large pockets to rail below the roof (and garden above).
Move slightly right to a hanging stance with a good foot hold. 
Pitch 3. 20m (22)

Traverse right, under the Bust Up roof flake, and all the way to join the last few moves of Uber Huber. 
Abseil from fixed gear to start of route. 
If you want to top out, traverse right then join Bust Up.

FLAKY DOG 21

Despite the lichen that plasters the second pitch of the climb, this route has the potential to become a classic if it is 
“climbed into condition”. It is a moderate 2 pitch route that involves classic sustained TM climbing on steep rock, with excellent 
protection.

Start: The route starts just to the right of the Africa Gullet crack on the upper Africa ledge.

Pitch 1 25m 21:

Climb the face just to the right of Gullet’s crack to a cruxy section. (One can cheat by straddling across Gullet’s crack). 
Pass this to a good rail. Rail right to steep juggy rock that leads you to a stance. Belay off the abseil bolts.

Pitch 2 30m 21:

Climb the “staggered crack” that diagonals up to the left to a grassy stance. Don’t stop here but rail easily left above 
Odd Shouters crux and then up to a stance. Continue wandering easily to the top back to the abseil anchors.

VAPOUR TRAIL (28)

Upper Africa Ledge, Table Mountain

Located on the right hand side of Upper Africa Ledge almost directly under the Africa Corner abseils. 
It starts around the corner to the left of, and at the same level as, the crack pitch of Atlantic Crag.

Pitch 1 15m (28):

Start off blocks on the left end of the ledge. Reach up to a jug on the prow at the first rail. 
Rail right for 5m then up a recess to the left side of the upper roof. 
Rail right for 5m along the upper rail past the bulge and then pull through the roof using a wedged dinner plate and up to the 
big ledge above.

Gear: Critical cam (blue, 0.3 Camelot size) in lower rail before ascending the recess.

Pitch 2 20m (23):

On the left side of the ledge, above the recess of pitch 1, is a featured face with a shallow crack system. 
This is at the same level as, and a bit right of, pitch 1 of Mellow Steady Flow. Climb the crack system tending slightly 
left at the top to a small ledge. Scramble up and right to the abseil rings and stance there.

Pitch 3 35m (21):

Climbs straight up above the abseil rings. Ascend two short, white faces and a small, dark corner with a friendly layback crack to a ledge.
Climb slightly left up the big, white block above to stance below a short, steep, white face.

Pitch 4 10m (22):

Climb easily to a small, blocky roof. Rail 1m right and go up a small corner/crack. 
Head back left and up on some juggy rails to the ledge with the top abseil rings. 
Can be combined with pitch 3 but the leader is out of sight of the belayer on the top moves and a long way up so a fall could result 
in hitting the blocks below. Probably best to split into two pitches.

TRIPLE JEOPARDY (30/31) *****

Start: as for Roulette arete.

Pitch 1 40m? (31):

The obvious line straight up the centre of the Jeopardy wall. This route is a link up of the first pitch of Roulette Arête, 
the crux of The Squid and the Whale and the second half of Double Jeopardy. 
Follow the crack up the centre of the lower wall until it ends at the highest rail. 
Summon a modicum of strength to pull over the lip and establish on two underclings. 
Clip the peg to your right and continue straight up the wall till you bang your head on the roof at the top. 
Turn left and head for the sunset. Probably the easiest of the 31s on this wall.